SIDNER.
SHE'S JOINING US FROM JERUSALEM.
ISRAEL HAS BEEN CONDUCTING
RAIDING IN THE WEST BANK AS IT
WAGES THIS WAR AGAINST HAMAS.
HOW EXTENSIVE ARE THESE ISRAELI
MILITARY OPERATIONS?
>> Reporter: VERY EXTENSIVE TO
SAY THE LEAST.
THE ISRAELI MILITARY SAID THAT
IT HAD BEEN CONDUCTING WIDE
SCALE WHAT IT CALLS
COUNTERTERRORISM ACTIVITY IN THE
WEST BANK WHERE THEY HAVE
ARRESTED MORE THAN 60
PALESTINIANS IN THE LAST DAY OR
SO.
I SHOULD ALSO MENTION THAT THE
TENSIONS IN THE WEST BANK VERY,
VERY HIGH.
ESPECIALLY AFTER THAT BLAST AT
THE HOSPITAL BECAUSE THE
PALESTINIANS BASICALLY DO NOT
BELIEVE THE ISRAELI EVIDENCE OR
ISRAELI MILITARY INTELLIGENCE
THAT ISRAEL WAS NOT RESPONSIBLE
FOR THAT BLAST.
AND THEY DON'T BELIEVE U.S.
INTELLIGENCE THAT SEEMS TO AT
THIS POINT CONFIRM THE ISRAELI
INTELLIGENCE.
THEY BELIEVE THAT IT WAS
UNDERTAKEN BY ISRAEL AND THAT IS
SOMETHING THAT THEY CERTAINLY
CANNOT FORGIVE AND HAVE BEEN OUT
PROTESTING IN VERY LARGE
NUMBERS.
BUT THERE HAVE BEEN SMALLER
SCALE CLASHES THAT HAVE ENDED IN
DEATHS OF PALESTINIANS.
THE PALESTINIAN AUTHORITIES SAY
THERE WERE ABOUT SEVEN
PALESTINIANS WHO HAVE BEEN
KILLED OVERNIGHT DURING ONE OF
THOSE RAIDS BY THE ISRAELI
MILITARY.
AND SO, YOU KNOW, THE ISRAELI
MILITARY SAYS IN THAT OPERATION
IN TOKARENE, THEY WENT INTO A
REFUGEE CAMP AND ENDED UP
ARRESTING ABOUT TEN PEOPLE
THERE.
SEVEN PALESTINIANS ACCORDING TO
THE PA, WERE KILLED.
THAT IS JUST RATCHETING UP THE
TENSIONS AS YOU MIGHT IMAGINE IN
THE WEST BANK, WHICH IS NOT RUN
BY HAMAS.
IT IS RUN BY WHAT THE
INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY
RECOGNIZES AS THE LEADER OF THE
PALESTINIAN PEOPLE, THE
PALESTINIAN AUTHORITY, WOLF.
>> HOW FEARFUL ARE PALESTINIANS
ON THE WEST BANK OF ISRAELI
SETTLER VIOLENCE?
>> Reporter: THERE HAVE BEEN AN
UPTICK, A BIG UPTICK, OF
VIOLENCE BY SETTLERS AGAINST
PALESTINIANS.
I DON'T KNOW IF THE WORD IS
FEAR, BUT IT'S MORE ANGER.
IT'S MORE RAGE IN HAVING TO DEAL
WITH THAT AS WELL.
WE DO KNOW THAT THERE HAS BEEN
AN UPTICK BECAUSE OF THIS GROUP
NAMED BAIT SALEM AND OTHERS
LOOKING AT THE ACTIVITY OF
SETTLERS IN THE AREA WHICH HAS
ALWAYS BEEN A FLASH POINT OF
PALESTINIANS EVERYWHERE, BUT
PARTICULARLY IN THE WEST BANK.
I WANTED TO LET YOU SEE WHAT
BAIT SALEM GROUP, THIS GROUP
THAT TRACKS SETTLER VIOLENCE,
THAT BELIEVES IT'S A FULL
OCCUPATION BY ISRAEL THAT NEEDS
TO END.
THEY SAY THE SETTLER VIOLENCE
AGAINST PALESTINIANS HAS RISEN
IN BOTH FREQUENCY AND INTENSITY
WITH SOLDIERS AND POLICE
OFFICERS FULLY BACKING THE
ASSAILANTS UNDER THE COVER OF
WAR.
SETTLERS ARE CARRYING OUT SUCH
ASSAULTS VIRTUALLY UNCHECKED.
THAT IS THE GROUP, THE ISRAELI
HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATION.
I ALSO WANT TO MENTION THERE ARE
ABOUT 700,000 SETTLERS IN THE
WEST BANK BUT CONVERSELY,
THEY'RE TERRIFIED AS WELL AND
THEY'LL TELL YOU SO.
THEY CONSTANTLY SAY, LOOK, WE
FEEL LIKE WE ARE JUST DEFENDING
OURSELVES.
OUR FAMILIES.
SO YOU HAVE THIS AWFUL BACK AND
FORTH BETWEEN THE TWO GROUPS BUT
INTERNATIONALLY, THE SETTLEMENTS
ARE NOT RECOGNIZED AND ARE
CONSIDERED ILLEGAL BUT THIS IS A
BATTLE THAT HAS BEEN GOING ON
LONG BEF